# PL/SQL

- Procedural Language extension to SQL

- SQL을 확장한 절차적 언어
- 관계형 데이터베이스에서 사용되는 오라클 엑세스 언어
- PL/SQL 블록을 보내면 서버쪽에서 블록을 받아 procedural을 나눈다.
- 프로그램 종류 : procedure, function, trigger

# Stored Procedure

- 서버에 저장해놓고 주기적으로 반복해서 사용하는 Procedure

```plsql
CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE print_contact( -- OR REPLACE : 이미 있을시 기존 프로시저 대체 (생략가능)
    in_customer_id IN NUMBER  -- IN, OUT, IN OUT Parameter
)
IS
  r_contact contacts%ROWTYPE;
BEGIN
  -- get contact based on customer id
  SELECT *
  INTO r_contact
  FROM contacts
  WHERE customer_id = p_customer_id;

  -- print out contact's information
  dbms_output.put_line( r_contact.first_name || ' ' ||
  r_contact.last_name || '<' || r_contact.email ||'>' );

EXCEPTION
   WHEN OTHERS THEN
      dbms_output.put_line( SQLERRM );
END;
```

## Executing Stored Procedures

```plsql
EXECUTE print_contract(324324);
```

## IN, OUT, INOUT

**`IN` mode**:

> -   Default mode
> -   Passes a value to the subprogram.
> -   Formal parameter acts like a constant: When the subprogram begins, its value is that of either its actual parameter or default value, and the subprogram cannot change this value.
> -   Actual parameter can be a constant, initialized variable, literal, or expression.
> -   Actual parameter is passed by reference.

**`OUT` mode:**

> -   Must be specified.
> -   Returns a value to the invoker.
> -   Formal parameter is initialized to the default value of its type. The default value of the type is `NULL` except for a record type with a non-`NULL` default value.
> -   When the subprogram begins, the formal parameter has its initial value regardless of the value of its actual parameter. Oracle recommends that the subprogram assign a value to the formal parameter.
> -   If the default value of the formal parameter type is `NULL`, then the actual parameter must be a variable whose data type is not defined as `NOT NULL`.
> -   By default, actual parameter is passed by value; if you specify `NOCOPY`, it might be passed by reference.

**`IN OUT` mode:**

> -   Must be specified.
> -   Passes an initial value to the subprogram and returns an updated value to the invoker.
> -   Formal parameter acts like an initialized variable: When the subprogram begins, its value is that of its actual parameter. Oracle recommends that the subprogram update its value.
> -   Actual parameter must be a variable (typically, it is a string buffer or numeric accumulator).
> -   By default, actual parameter is passed by value (in both directions); if you specify `NOCOPY`, it might be passed by reference.

## USING OUT Parameter

```plsql
CREATE OR REPLACE PROCEDURE TEST3
(V_STU_NO IN STUDENT.STU_NO%TYPE,
V_STU_NAME OUT STUDENT.STU_NAME%TYPE)
IS
BEGIN
    SELECT STU_NAME
    INTO V_STU_NAME
    FROM STUDENT
    WHERE STU_NO = V_STU_NO;
END TEST3;
/

VARIABLE D_STU_NAME VARCHAR2(10);
EXECUTE TEST3(20153075,:D_STU_NAME);

PRINT D_STU_NAME;
```


# SEQUENCE

A sequence is an object in Oracle that is used to generate a number sequence.
This can be useful when you need to create a unique number to act as a primary key.

### CREATE SEQUENCE

```plsql
CREATE SEQUENCE schema_name.sequence_name
[INCREMENT BY interval]
[START WITH first_number]
[MAXVALUE max_value | NOMAXVALUE]
[MINVALUE min_value | NOMINVALUE]
[CYCLE | NOCYCLE]
[CACHE cache_size | NOCACHE]
[ORDER | NOORDER];
```

`CYCLE`: Use `CYCLE` to allow the sequence to generate value after it reaches the limit, min value for a descending sequence and max value for an ascending sequence.

When an ascending sequence reaches its maximum value, it generates the minimum value.

On the other hand, when a descending sequence reaches its minimum value, it generates the maximum value.

---

`CACHE` : Specify the number of sequence values that Oracle will preallocate and keep in the memory for faster access.

The minimum of the cache size is 2. The maximum value of the cache size is based on this formula:

`(CEIL (MAXVALUE - MINVALUE)) / ABS (INCREMENT)`

Code language: SQL (Structured Query Language) (sql)

In case of a system failure event, you will lose all cached sequence values that have not been used in committed SQL statements.

---

#### create sequence example

```plsql
CREATE SEQUENCE id_seq
    INCREMENT BY 10
    START WITH 10
    MINVALUE 10
    MAXVALUE 100
    CYCLE
    CACHE 2;
```

To get the next value of the sequence, you use the `NEXTVAL` pseudo-column:

```PLSQL
SELECT id_seq.NEXTVAL 
FROM dual; -- OUTPUT: 10
```

To get the current value of the sequence, you use the `CURRVAL` pseudo-column:

```PLSQL
SELECT id_seq.CURRVAL
FROM dual; -- OUTPUT: 10
```

```PLSQL
SELECT id_seq.NEXTVAL 
FROM dual
CONNECT BY level <= 9; -- OUTPUT : 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100
```

Because we set the `CYCLE` option for the `id_seq` sequence, the next value of the `id_seq` will be 10:

```PLSQL
SELECT id_seq.NEXTVAL FROM dual; -- 10
```

 